# 2. User Management

# Understanding 'Person' and 'User' entities
Shesha comes with both `Person` and `User` entities as part of its core domain model and it is important to understand the difference and relationship between both.
Whereas the `Person` entity is used to store and manage information relating to persons (whether the Person is a system user or not), the `User` entity is specifically used to manage system users. 

*In order for a person to be a system user, both a `Person` entity and a matching `User` record need to exist.*

Since the information a system needs to store about a person will often differ depending on the requirements, it is expected that in most implementations, the `Person` entity will be extended by creating sub-classes with additional properties. 

In contrast, since the `User` entity is used purely for managing the system accounts, it is not expected to be extended as the framework should already provide all the necessary account management features required (e.g. creation, password management, lock-out, activation, etc...) via the `UserManager` class.

## Example

Imagine you are building a system used to manage client information but where only company employees should have access to the system. 

Since both Clients and Employee are more specific types of persons, you would create `Client` and `Employee` sub-classes that inherit from the `Person` class and add the relevant properties to each. You would however only create matching `User` records for the `Employee` entities.

Should you in the future want to create a client portal so that your clients can also access some limited functions of your system, you could then create `User` records for them as they register onto the portal. You would limit their access to certain functions only by assigning them different roles than you would for your internal employees.

# UserManager and UserAppService classes

All system account management functions (such as account registrations, activiation/deactivation, password management, etc...) you require should already be supported by the framework via the `UserAppService` and `UserManager` classes.

TODO : Assigning Roles
