# 4. Sub Form

# Description
A component for displaying nested forms.

## Events
These events are subscribed to by the form and can be triggered anywhere in the form, usually using buttons. 

In order to dispatch these events, both the dispatcher (Usually the button) and the listener (the Sub Form) should have the same **Unique State ID**.

Below are the events:

1. `getFormData` - Used to refresh the form Data (Make sure the `GET URL` is provided)
2. `postFormData` - Used to save the form data (Make sure the `POST URL` is provided)
3. `updateFormData` - used to update the form data (Make sure the `PUT URL` is provided)
4. `deleteFormData` - Used to delete the form data (Make sure the `DELETE URL` is provided)

# Properties

## Display

### Name
The name of the property. Very important to pre-populate the form with data. It also important to note that all the form fields are going to be prefixed with this name that you will have provided here. For example if you entered `subForm` as the name and the form has a property like `firstName`, the new name will be `subForm_firstName`.

### Label
The label of the component.

### Form Path
An autocomplete for the list of forms to choose form. Use it to search for a form that will be displayed by this component. The form will be read-only.

This field is required.

### Unique State ID
A unique state of this component. Important for subscribing to the events listed earlier.

## Data

### Data Source
Specifies how the component will receive its data. Two sources are possible:

1. `form` - (Default) the main form will be responsible for populating this component with data
2. `api` - The form will be responsible for fetching its own data. By default the GET URL that is used is `/api/services/app/Entities/GetAll`. You can override that by providing the `GET URL`

### Properties
The properties that should be included in the payload.

### Entity type
the entity against which to fetch the form data.

### Query Params
The query parameters to be used to fetch the data (usually if you wish to not use the default url to fetch the form data).

## URLs

### GET URL
Used to fetch the data of the form. Only necessary if you do not want to use the default URL, which is `/api/services/app/Entities/GetAll`.

### POST URL
URL for saving the data. Will be triggered by the event `postFormData`, usually from the button.

### PUT URL
URL for updating the data. Will be triggered by the event `updateFormData`, usually from the button.

### DELETE URL
URL for deleting the data. Will be triggered by the event `deleteFormData`, usually from the button.

## Actions
### On Submit
Triggered before retrieving the sub-form object from the back-end.

### On Created
Triggered after successfully creating a new sub-form object in the back-end.

### On Updated
Triggered after successfully creating a new sub-form object in the back-end.

## Layout
Use the configurations under this section to override the layout settings of this form. If not provided, the defaults will be used. Please note that this uses the Ant Design's `24` columns' grid system.

### Label Col
The columns span.

### Wrapper Col
The component's column's span.

## Visibility
The visibility state of this component.

### Custom Visibility
Write the code that returns the visibility state of this component.
